.TH "libold" 3 "2003-12-23" 
.SH "NAME"
libold - A library to interface with old, the Open Lock Daemon

.SH "SYNOPSIS"

.B #include <old.h>

.B #define OLD_PORT

.B int old_connect(
.BI "char " *host ,
.BI "int " port);

.B int old_lock(
.BI "int " fd,
.BI "char " *s);

.B int old_unlock(
.BI "int " fd,
.BI "char " *s);

.B int old_trylock(
.BI "int " fd,
.BI "char " *s);


.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The
.B libold
library is an interface to
.BR old ,
the Open Lock Daemon, which is described in old(1).
.PP
It provides an abstract, high level interface to the normal locking operations
so that any application can use the server without having to worry about the
underlying layer.
.SH "FUNCTIONS"
The functions provided are quite simple and well-known, they refer to the
normal operations that are performed on locks, and, except for
.IR old_connect() ,
all have the same prototype: they receive a file descriptor (fd) which
identifies a connection with the lock server opened with
.I old_connect()
(which is described below), and a string that identifies the resource to
operate on.
.PP
.B old_connect()
is special because it must be called before any other, and is used to
establish the network connection with the lock server. It accepts two
parameters: the first one is a string identifying the host to connect, which
can be an IP address or the name of the host which will be resolved; and the
second one is the port to connect to, it should be the same one the server is
expecting connections. When possible, use the default defined in
.BR OLD_PORT .
It returns the connection's file descriptor, or -1 if there was an error.
.PP
.B old_lock()
is used to lock the given resource, and it will block until the lock is
granted. It returns 1 on success, and -1 if there was a fail in
delivering the command to the server.
.PP
.B old_unlock()
releases the lock on the given resource. It returns 1 on success, 0 on
failure (for example if the object wasn't locked in the first place), and -1
if there was a failure in delivering the command to the server.
.PP
.B old_trylock()
attempts to lock the resource, but does
.B not
block. It returns 1 if the object was locked, 0 if not (because it was locked
and it would block), and -1 if there was a failure in delivering the command
to the server.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
old(1)
.SH "AUTHOR"
old was written by Alberto Bertogli (albertogli@telpin.com.ar). The website is
at http://users.auriga.wearlab.de/~alb/old/


